Introduction 
Empathy is one of the greatest discussed subjects in the contemporary world. The book empathy exam seeks to induce a sense of empathy among its readers. The understanding that the book attempt to transfer is induces through our reactions to different human experiences which revolves around an empathic experience of pain. The author, Leslie Jamison, was a medical actor that acted in accordance with different roles. These roles portray characters that have pain in their lives that is related to medical issues. Most important thing about this whole scenario is that these situations do exist in real life and real people go through it. Hence, it can be concluded that these essays will have the empathic reactions that are intended by the writer. This would lead to a better understanding of ourselves and how empathy plays a part in our thinking and belief sets.

Leslie Jamison has somewhat of a weird profession in which she has to act as a patient and communicate her maladies to the newly trained medical professionals. She then evaluates the communications she had. One of the most important thing that was derived from her experience is her understanding the importance of empathy. She would evaluate the medical students based on their level of empathic understanding of the patients. The book, empathy exam, is basically her experiences with these students. The books is a perfect stitching of the emotional and intellectual aspects of her experiences that compell the reader to think more about the point of the book.

Summary
Empathy is one of first and foremost requirement for a medical professional. Although, the same argument can be made with regards to any profession but it is a vital part of the medical profession. This is mainly because the patients' pain is the fundamental of the profession itself.  Hence, in order to be able to understand it there needs to be an empathic understanding of the subjective experiences of pain of the patients.

The human experience is not merely categorical but, rather, involves a variety of different combinations of emotions and feelings alongside differences in intensities. These things are a result, majorly, of past experiences of a person and their belief sets. Hence, it is vital to understand that in order for us to begin to understand someone's pain through empathy there is a need for the acceptance that human experience are, consequentially, subjective. Regardless, of the level of sentimentality a person scales to there is always some sort of deficiency in full comprehension of the subjective experience of any given person.

Nonetheless, this is not to say that there is no point attempting to be empathise with people in pain. Instead, this point is raised so that a person, in their attempt to empathise with another person's pain, does not reduce the pain's impact on the other person's emotional, mental, and even physiological being. However, a feeling of empathy with people in pain constitutes of basic humanity. This capability is more than necessary in medical profession. This is because empathy will lead to the medical professional being understanding of the pain the patient is going through and deal with them accordingly. The empathic words, actions, and tone are vital in dealing with patients. Firstly, because it is a human thing to do. Secondly, because without understanding of the pain the medical professional will have a hard time in pinpointing the problem.

Attempts at detaching oneself from something that is traditionally considered 'touchy-feely' is very much ironic. This problem even had paved its way into the medical profession where the newbie medical professionals have a hard time in communicating correctly with the patients. The issues arising with this attitude are even more pronounced when the patients emotional being is effecting their psychological being. Such was the case with the role of Stephanie Philips in the book. This case was such that where the patients got so depresses that the pain of loss of a loved one led to them having seizures. Hence, if a medical professional is unable to empathise with a person like her then it stands to reason to conclude that the medical professional will not be able to grav the core of the problem. In addition to that, wrong diagnosis might further lead to bad consequences for the patient in future. 

Critical conclusion 
Leslie Jamison's arguments are certainly not the one's to be disagreed with. Although, the book is written based on her experiences as a medical actor, it still carries the pain that she received due to her own past traumatic experiences. She herself has gone through painful experiences and had experiences the apathic attitudes of the medical professionals first-hand. This has brought much more vitality and precision in her overall discussions of empathy. 

It is not a hidden fact that empathy is almost absent in today’s world. However, the book alludes to the fact that the reason behind this detachment is actually phobia with regards to emotionality. Hence, it can be said that the book though discusses lack of empathy in the medical profession it also points towards a much more deeper social disease. This disease of fear of feelings is quiet rampant in the contemporary social structure. 

Leslie Jamison wrote a perfect marvel where she attempts at inducing empathic reactions from people through the stories. Then she moves on the ways understanding what the reader has begin to feel due to reading those stories. This is one of the best methodology of teaching anything. Hence, it can also be said that this book is structures perfectly in accordance with the intended effect of the author as well.
